Several other members of the Fellowship, including Gimli,
Legolas, and Aragorn, resolve to pursue Merry and Pippin. They follow the
hobbits’ tracks through fields and forests, always on the lookout for
Orcs. The group encounters the Riders of Rohan, led by Éomer.
Meanwhile, Merry and Pippin are being conveyed back to
Orc headquarters when Orcs from another tribe, the Uruk-hai, kidnap them
in pursuit of the Ring they believe the hobbits to be carrying. Pippin
and Merry escape the Orcs and travel through the forest near the
Entwash River, where an Ent (a giant treelike creature) named Fangorn
befriends them. Fangorn offers the hobbits nourishment and conveys
them to an Ent assembly. There, the Ents resolve to go to war against
the Orcs of Isengard (creatures controlled by the corrupted wizard
Saruman), who have been cruel to them.
Frodo, Sam, and Gollum journey through a smelly marshland
in which they can see the faces of slain warriors haunting the waters. They
travel by night, as Gollum cannot stand the sun, so they are cold
and hungry most of the time. They finally reach the Black Gate of
the realm of Mordor and see Sauron’s Dark Tower rising overhead.
The Gate is well guarded, and the hobbits wonder how they will be
able to get inside. Gollum directs them to a different, hidden path
into Mordor, where the guards will likely be sparser. On the way,
the hobbits are frightened by dark shapes flying overhead—the Nazgûl,
the Black Riders of Sauron who are searching for the Ring.
Along the way, Frodo meets a band of Men led by Faramir,
the younger brother of Boromir. The men are suspicious of the hobbits at
first, believing they are responsible for Boromir’s death. Frodo avoids
telling Faramir that his brother betrayed the Fellowship by attempting
to seize the Ring for himself, but Sam blurts it out. Faramir is
shocked, but grateful to learn the truth, so he offers support to
the hobbits’ journey. Faramir’s men nearly kill Gollum, who is caught
as an intruder, but Frodo intercedes to save the creature.
Gollum leads Frodo and Sam up the mountain called Cirith Ungol
and into tunnels inhabited by Shelob, a giant, deadly female spider.
Shelob paralyzes Frodo with her sting, but Sam kills the spider.
Frodo and Sam are separated, however, as Orc guards find Frodo and
proceed to take him off to their headquarters, where they plan to
search him for the Ring. Sam believes Frodo to be dead, so he accepts
the responsibility of carrying the Ring by himself.
